### Exploring National Park Service visitor experiences with NLP

A blog post describing the project and presenting some of the results is available at https://andreaeverett.github.io/blog/NPS_Visitor_Data/.

##### Code summary:

1. 'make_CSVs': This file takes the visitor survey data I downloaded from NPS (an Excel file with many sheets) and turns it into two CSVs, one with an entry for every individual survey response (over 40,000 observations) and the other with a single entry for each NPS unit (320 observations).

2. 'TFIDF_wordclouds': This file uses TFIDF to capture the most unique terms for each park unit, and to make some example word clouds based on them.

3. 'topic_modeling': This file tokenizes the combined survey text for each NPS unit and uses a Hierarchical Dirichlet Process (HDP) to extract topics from these texts.  The HDP results serve as input for a K-means clustering model. Principal component analysis reduces the HDP results to 2 primary dimensions to facilitate visual inspection of the clusters.

4. 'park_recommender_prep' & 'park_recommender_app': These files contain a web application that recommends NPS units to potential visitors. The 'park_recommender_prep' file generates data used by the app in the form of a single vector for each NPS unit, representing the semantic space summarized by the collection of user surveys for that park.  The app takes text input from a user, generates a comparable vector, and compares it against all 320 NPS unit vectors to find the five closest matches (suggestions).  To run the app and see the recommender in action, the user will need to download Google's word vectors (nearly 4 GB, available [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7XkCwpI5KDYNlNUTTlSS21pQmM/edit). S/he should insert the file, 'GoogleNews-vectors-negative300.bin', into the 'models' folder under 'park_recommender_app' before running the app.
The app displays photos for a small selection of the park units; if deployed live the rest would be filled in with relevant pictures.

5. 'sentiment_analysis': This file conducts a simple TextBlob sentiment analysis on the the long version of the dataset (with one entry for each survey response) and examines how average visitor sentiment varies across park units.

##### Other files:

1. data_files: Contains the data files used & generated by all but the recommendation app.

2. images: Contains the word cloud images produced in 'TFIDF_wordclouds' and the figures produced in 'topic_modeling'.

3. topic_files: Contains a number of files produced by the HDP modeling code in 'topic_modeling'.
